# rcsfa-ST-2B-SSS-cotton-strip

#### Data and scripts associated with “Basin-scale connections between reach-scale sediment respiration and point-scale organic-matter decomposition”
James C. Stegen, Morgan E. Barnes, Dillman Delgado, Brieanne Forbes, Vanessa A. Garayburu-Caruso, Amy E. Goldman, Maggi Laan, Sophia A. McKever, Peter Regier, Lupita Renteria, and Scott D. Tiegs
## Summary
This data package is associated with “Basin-scale connections between reach-scale sediment respiration and point-scale organic-matter decomposition” submitted to EGU Biogeosciences. It contains cotton strip decomposition rates (Kcd and Kdd) collected across the Yakima River Basin (YRB), Washington, USA. Associated data used in analysis, metadata, and field protocols can be accessed at https://data.ess-dive.lbl.gov/datasets/doi:10.15485/1923689, https://data.ess-dive.lbl.gov/datasets/doi:10.15485/1969566, and https://data.ess-dive.lbl.gov/datasets/doi:10.15485/1987520. This data package is associated with the repository found at https://github.com/river-corridors-sfa/rcsfa-ST-2B-SSS-cotton-strip.

This data package consists of four folders: (1) R-scripts; (2) figures; (3) outputs from the scripts; and (4) published data. The published data folder contains a readme directing the user to download data in order to run the R-scripts. All files are .csv, .pdf, .R, .Rmd, and .txt.

For details on how to navigate data packages generated by this project, see https://data.ess-dive.lbl.gov/portals/PNNLRiverCorridorSFA/About.

NOTE: The manuscript associated with this data package is currently in review. The data may be revised based on reviewer feedback. Upon manuscript acceptance, this data package will be updated with the final dataset and additional metadata.

## Manuscript Reference
The manuscript associated with this repo and Data Package is currently under review
## Data Reference
In addition to this repo, the Data Package is published and publicly available on ESS-DIVE. If using these data, please cite the Data Package with the following citation and DOI:  
> Stegen J C ; Barnes M E ; Delgado D ; Forbes B ; Garayburu-Caruso V A ; Goldman A E ; Laan M ; McKever S A ; Regier P ; Renteria L ; Tiegs S D (2025): Data and scripts associated with “Basin-scale connections between reach-scale sediment respiration and point-scale organic-matter decomposition”. River Corridor Hydro-biogeochemistry from Molecular to Multi-Basin Scales SFA, ESS-DIVE repository. Dataset. [doi:10.15485/3008446](https://data.ess-dive.lbl.gov/datasets/doi:10.15485/3008446)
## Contact
James Stegen, james.stegen@pnnl.gov
